# Moore Voting Algorithm

## Introduction
Moore Voting Algorithm, also known as **Boyer-Moore Majority Voting Algorithm** is used to find the **majority** element in an array. Majority element is that element which has a frequency of more than _n/2_ where n is the length of the array. For example...

```
Array is [3,2,2,3,3,3,4]
Here,
The length of the array is (n) = 7
The frequency of 3 = 4
4 > n/2 i.e. 3.5
Thus, 3 is the Majority element
```

This is different from "Most Frequent Element" because if the frequency is less than _n/2_ then the element is not considered a majority element. For example...

```
Array is [3,2,2,3,3,3,4,5,6,7]
Here,
The length of the array is (n) = 10
The highest frequency is of 3 which is 4
4 is not greated than n/2 i.e. 5
Thus, there is no Majority element
```

## Space Time Complexity
**Time complexity** is O(n)

**Space complexity** is O(1)

## What is the algorithm?
There are two parts of the algorithm :-
1. Finding the highest frequency element
2. Verifying that it is the majority element

**Finding the highest frequency element**

We use a variable such as **count** to keep track of the count of the element. We use another variable such as **majority** to keep track of the current majority element.

1. We start by setting the first element of the array as the **majority** and set the **count** as 1. 
2. Now we iterate over to the next elements. 
3. If the next element is the same as **majority**, then we increase the count by 1. 
4. Otherwise, we decrease the count by 1. 
5. Now, suppose the count goes down to 0, we change the **majority** to the current element and set the count to 1. 
6. At the end of the iteration, whatever is in **majority** will be used for verification.

**Verifying _majority_ is the Majority element**
1. We iterate over the loop again and check the frequency of **majority**
2. If the frequency is more than half the length of the array i.e. n/2, then **majority** is the Majority element
3. Otherwise, there is no Majority element

## Reference Links
* [Geeks For Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boyer-moore-majority-voting-algorithm/)
* [Great explanation on Youtube with example in C++](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n5QY3x_GNDg)
* Solved problem reference - Neetcode Challenge -> Arrays -> 15. Majority Element -> JS -> 2. mooresVotingSolution.js